JAY SMITH
71 Fifth Ave.
Sometown, NY 11597
555.555.5555
js@somedomain.com   SENIOR PROGRAMMER
 

    Results-driven lead programmer offering extensive experience within both Fortune 500 and startup environments. SCJP and SCJD certified.
    Able to incorporate user needs into cost-effective, secure and user-friendly solutions known for scalability and durability.
    Innovator of next-generation solutions, systems and applications fueling major improvements to the bottom line.
    Proven leader and project manager; drive system architecture decisions and lead projects from concept through the release process.

 
Technology
Summary     
Languages/Programming: Java, J2EE, C, C++, Perl, PHP, VB.Net, SQL Server, ASP.Net, HTML, XML, SAP, ActiveX

Systems: AIX, Linux, Unix (Solaris/HP-UX), Windows XP/NT v4.0

Networking: TCP/IP, SFTP, FTP

Databases: DB2, Oracle 8/7, Informix, MS Access
 
Professional
Experience  ABC COMPANY -- Sometown, NY
Lead Programmer, 2009 to Present

Develop, maintain and support application programs for administrative, Web and mobile systems using Java and related tools. Analyze code for system testing and debugging; create test transactions to find, isolate and rectify issues; and manage a team of three programmers. Accomplishments:

    Reengineered multiple systems that fueled improvements to productivity, efficiency, uptime and accuracy for global business operations. Developed code, system design and test/QA plans for all solutions and often coordinated the national or international rollout.
    Led, architected and participated in the design, testing and deployment of client/server, multitier applications, ActiveX and related components.
    Developed new procedures for requirements gathering, needs analysis, testing, scripting and documentation to strengthen quality and functionality of business-critical applications.
    Developed large-scale, portable, thread-safe and ultra-high performance foundation and application infrastructure libraries.
    Trained and mentored junior programmers in programming methodologies and best practices.
    Delivered back-office tools supporting ecommerce initiatives, enabling company to compete more effectively in the marketplace through search-engine optimization.
    Served as a core group member in defining and prioritizing technology investments for the next two years, ensuring the alignment of process, technology and business objectives.

XYZ.COM -- Sometown, NJ
Lead Programmer, 2002 to 2008

Led programming tasks including enhancements, maintenance and support for clients’ applications and interfaces. Engineered software products, handling complex analysis and intricate programming to meet project requirements. Accomplishments:

    Led solutions engineering that involved process automation, macro conversion and functionality enhancement. Replaced time-consuming, error-prone manual processes with elegant, automated solutions.
    Developed and implemented cross-platform, Java-based POS system. Completed project under budget and three weeks ahead of deadline.
    Coded new solutions that increased availability and scalability by 45% and 75%, respectively.

DEF COMPANY -- Sometown, NJ
Programmer II / Programmer I, 2000 to 2002
Help Desk Analyst, 1998 to 2000

Progressed through promotions, culminating in responsibility for Web-based application programming within high-volume setting. Became adept in analyzing code for system testing and debugging.
 
Education &
Credentials     ABC UNIVERSITY -- Sometown, NY
MS in Software Engineering Candidate, 2010 to Present
Current GPA: 3.8 | Expected Graduation: 2012

DEF UNIVERSITY -- Sometown, NJ
BS in Computer Information Science, 1998

Certifications:

    Sun Certified Java Programmer (SCJP), 2007 
    Sun Certified Java Developer (SCJD), 2008

Recent Seminars:

    Enterprise Java Development
    C++ Programming: Concepts, Design and Implementation
    Windows Programming Using Visual C++
    Advanced Workshop in Object-Oriented Analysis and Design
    Project Lifecycle and Project Management Master Class
    Project Management Methods

Volunteerism    Little League Coach (Sometown, NY), 2009 to Present
PTA Secretary (Sometown Elementary School), 2010 to Present
Active Volunteer, Special Olympics, 2008 to Present
  Available for Relocation  
